Now, let's discuss
another popular enterprise
storage solution, data lakes.
A data lake is a
system or repository
of data stored in its
natural and raw format,
which is usually in the
form of blobs or files.
A data lake, like
a data warehouse,
aggregates data from various
sources of enterprise data.
A data lake can include
structured data like
racial databases or semi-structured
data like CSV files,
or unstructured data like
a collection of images or
documents, and so forth.
Since data lake store
data in its raw format,
they don't do any processing,
and they usually don't
follow a schema.
How does a data lake differ
from a data warehouse?
Let's compare the two.
The primary difference
between them
is that in a data warehouse,
data is stored in
a consistent format
which follows a schema,
whereas in data lakes,
the data is usually
in its raw format.
In data lakes, the
reason for storing
the data is often not
determined ahead of time.
This is usually not the
case for a data warehouse,
where it's usually stored
for a particular purpose.
Data warehouses are often used
by business
professionals as well,
whereas data lakes are typically
used only by data professionals
such as data scientists.
Since the data in
data warehouses is stored
in a consistent format,
changes to the data can
be complex and costly.
Data lakes however
are more flexible,
and make it easier to
make changes to the data.
Let's review our discussion
of enterprise data storage.
First, you learned
about feature stores,
which are repositories for
highly curated feature data,
specifically for use
in machine learning.
You learned about
subject-oriented
read-optimized data repositories,
known as data warehouses.
Finally, you explored data lakes,
which are repositories for
raw and unprocessed data.
We've come to the end
of another week and
we talked about a lot of
great stuff this week.
ML metadata, working with
storage for features stores,
schemas, data lakes,
and data warehouses.
I hope you had fun.
I sure did. We'll
see you next time.